README.md, before:

# PowerBash

PowerBash is a comprehensive, user-scoped environment configuration suite that supercharges your
command-line productivity. It provides a highly customized Bash shell, advanced Git integration,
a powerful tmux setup, and a feature-rich Vim environment with pre-configured plugins, all designed
for convenience, clarity, and efficiency.


## Features

### 🖥️ Enhanced Bash Environment

- **Custom PS1 Prompt:**  
  - Shows command return code status (`x` for failure, `o` for success).
  - Displays the current Git branch (with `⎇` symbol) if inside a Git repository.
  - Presents a complete and informative present working directory (PWD) path.
  - Distinguishes root (`#`) and normal user (`$`) prompts.
- **Clipboard Integration:**  
  - Includes the `osc_yank` function for copying text to the system clipboard via OSC52 escape
    sequences, supporting xterm, tmux, and screen.
- **Improved History and Usability:**  
  - Appends to history, ignores duplicates, and sets sensible history sizes.
  - Enables useful shell options: `globstar`, `checkwinsize`, `autoindent`, and more.
- **Colorful and Informative:**  
  - Color support for prompt, `ls`, `grep`, and GCC output.
  - Handy aliases for `ls`, `grep`, and more.
- **Automatic Sourcing:**  
  - Loads additional aliases from `~/.bash_aliases` if present.
  - Enables programmable completion if available.

### 🛠️ User-Scoped Git Configuration

- **Custom `.gitconfig`:**  
  - Useful aliases for submodule management (commands like `git sclone`, `git supdate`, etc.).
  - Pretty log formatting (commands like `git lg`).
  - Sets Vim as the default editor and uses a custom commit message template.
  - Enables colored output and credential storage.
- **`.gitignore`:**  
  - Ignores build artifacts, tags, cscope files, and visual studio code editor folders.
- **Commit Message Template:**  
  - Enforces a consistent, emoji-based commit message style with clear scopes and change types.

### 🖥️ Custom tmux Configuration

- **User-level `.tmux.conf`:**  
  - Enables mouse support, sets a modern status line, and configures useful key bindings.
  - Ensures compatibility with various tmux versions.
  - Sets up history limits, color schemes, and other usability tweaks.

### 📝 Advanced Vim Environment

- **Custom `.vimrc`:**  
  - Enables syntax highlighting, color schemes (Dracula), and improved UI elements.
  - Sets up filetype detection, indentation, and encoding options.
  - Defines convenient key mappings for window navigation, quickfix, and more.
  - Integrates cscope support for code navigation.
  - Adds OSC52 yank support for copying text from remote to the local system clipboard.
- **Pre-configured Plugins (via Pathogen):**
  - **a.vim** Swtich between source files and header files quickly.
  - **ack.vim:** Fast code pattern searching (configured to use `ag` if available).
  - **auto-pairs:** Automatic insertion of matching brackets and quotes.
  - **dracula.vim:** Dracula color scheme.
  - **indentline:** Visual indentation guides.
  - **leaderf:** Fuzzy file and tag finder.
  - **lightline.vim:** Lightweight, customizable statusline.
  - **minibufexpl.vim:** Buffer explorer.
  - **NERDTree:** File explorer sidebar.
  - **nerdtree-git-plugin:** Git status integration for NERDTree.
  - **OmniCppComplete:** C++ code completion.
  - **rainbow:** Rainbow parentheses for better code readability.
  - **taglist.vim:** Source code tag browser.
  - **vim-auto-popmenu:** Improved completion popup.
  - **vim-commentary:** Easy commenting.
  - **vim-cppman:** C++ manual integration.
  - **vim-dict:** Dictionary support for Vim.
  - **vim-gitbranch:** Git branch info for statuslines.
  - **vim-gitgutter:** Git diff indicators in the sign column.
  - **vim-plugin-AnsiEsc:** ANSI escape sequence highlighting.
  - **vim-polyglot:** Language pack for Vim.
  - **xterm-color-table.vim:** Color table utility.


## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/sheer-rey/PowerBash.git
    ```

2. **Install the configuration files by running the installer script:**
    ```bash
    cd PowerBash
    ./PowerBash -i
    ```
    By default, this installs to your `$HOME` directory. See `./PowerBash -h` for more information.

3. **Start the new bash environment or re-source your .bashrc to make configuration changes take effect in your shell:**
    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

4. **Start a new tmux session to enjoy tmux with the enhanced configuration:**
    ```bash
    tmux
    ```

5. **Open Vim to enjoy the enhanced environment:**
    ```bash
    vim
    ```


## Uninstallation

To uninstall PowerBash and revert to your previous configurations, run the uninstaller script:
```bash
cd PowerBash
./PowerBash -u
```
This will remove the installed configuration files from your `$HOME` directory.


## Examples && Usage

### Bash

- Enjoy a prompt that shows command status, Git branch, and full PWD.  
  <img src="./Examples/bash.png" width="800" alt="PowerBash Prompt">
- Use `osc_yank` to copy text to your clipboard from the terminal.
- Use handy aliases like `ll`, `la`, and `alert`.  

### Git

- Use aliases like `git lg`, `git sclone`, `git supdate`, `git sfetch`, `git spull`, `git spush`, etc.  
  <img src="./Examples/git_lg.png" width="800" alt="Git Log Example">

- Commit messages will use the provided template for clarity and consistency.  
  <img src="./Examples/git_message.png" width="800" alt="Git Commit Example">

### tmux

- Use mouse support, modern status line, and improved navigation out of the box.  
  <img src="./Examples/tmux.png" width="800" alt="tmux Example">

- Commonly used tmux shortcuts

  | Keys | Action | Notes |
  |------|--------|-------|
  | `Prefix+E c` | Create new window | Opens a new tmux window |
  | `Prefix+E &` | Kill current window | Prompts for confirmation |
  | `Prefix+E n` | Next window | Cycle to the next window |
  | `Prefix+E p` | Previous window | Cycle to the previous window |
  | `Prefix+E <Num>` | Choose window | |
  | `Prefix+E ,` | Rename window | Prompts for a new window name |
  | `Prefix+E .` | Move window | Prompt for destination index |
  | `Prefix+E %` | Split pane vertically | Creates a vertical split |
  | `Prefix+E "` | Split pane horizontally | Creates a horizontal split |
  | `Prefix+E o` | Select next pane | Cycle focus to the next pane |
  | `Prefix+E ;` | Select previous pane | Cycle focus to the previous pane |
  | `Prefix+E z` | Toggle pane zoom | Zooms the current pane |
  | `Prefix+E x` | Kill current pane | Closes the active pane |
  | `Prefix+E {` | Swap pane left/up | Swap current pane with previous |
  | `Prefix+E }` | Swap pane right/down | Swap current pane with next |
  | `Prefix+E [` | Enter copy mode | Navigate and copy text in history |
  | `Prefix+E ]` | Paste buffer | Paste the tmux buffer into pane |
  | `Prefix+E r` | Reload config | Reload `~/.tmux.conf` without restarting |
  | `Prefix+E d` | Detach session | Detach from the current tmux session |
  | `Prefix+E s` | Choose session | Interactive session switcher |
  | `Prefix+E ?` | Show key bindings | Displays configured tmux shortcuts |

> Notes:  
  Default Prefix is `Ctrl+B`, configured Prefix is `Alt+E`.  
  If a mapping conflicts with your terminal, ensure your terminal emulator sends Alt/Meta keys or remap the prefix.  

### Vim

- Use `<Leader>n` to toggle NERDTree, `<Leader>y` to yank to clipboard, `<Leader>m` to toggle taglist, and more.
- Enjoy enhanced code navigation, completion, and syntax highlighting.
- All plugins are managed via Pathogen and are ready to use.  
  <img src="./Examples/vim.png" width="800" alt="Vim Example">

- Commonly used vim commands and key mappings (Configured <Leader> is `;` in this setup)
  | Command | Description | Provided by |
  |---------|-------------|-------------|
  | `:w<CR>` | Save current file | Built-in |
  | `:q<CR>` | Quit current window | Built-in |
  | `:e {file}<CR>` | Open/edit a file | Built-in |
  | `:split<CR>` | Split window horizontally | Built-in |
  | `:vsplit<CR>` | Split window vertically | Built-in |
  | `:ls<CR>` | List opened buffers | Built-in |
  | `:bnext<CR>` | Jump to next buffer | Built-in |
  | `:bprev<CR>` | Jump to previous buffer | Built-in |
  | `:CscopeReload<CR>` | Try to find cscope database in `pwd` and reload it | Project-configured |
  | `:Helptags<CR>` | Generate vim help documents for installed plugins | pathogen.vim |
  | `:Ack {pattern}<CR>` | Fast project search (uses `ag` if available) | ack.vim |
  | `:LeaderfFiles<CR>` | Fuzzy file finder | leaderf |
  | `:LeaderfBuffer<CR>` | Fuzzy buffer finder | leaderf |
  | `:Cppman! {symbol}<CR>` | Open C manual for symbol | vim-cppman |
  | `:Cppman {symbol}<CR>` | Open C++ manual for symbol | vim-cppman |

  ---

  | Key Mapping | Description | Provided by |
  |-------------|-------------|-------------|
  | `<C-W> h` | Jump to the window left | Built-in |
  | `<C-W> j` | Jump to the window below | Built-in |
  | `<C-W> k` | Jump to the window above | Built-in |
  | `<C-W> l` | Jump to the window right | Built-in |
  | `<C-x><C-o>` | Trigger omni-completion (C/C++ via OmniCppComplete) | OmniCppComplete |

  ---

  | Key Mapping without prefix | Description | Provided by |
  |----------------------------|-------------|-------------|
  | `gc` | Toggle comment on selected lines | vim-commentary |
  | `gcc` | Toggle comment on current line | vim-commentary |
  | `]c` | Jump to next git change | vim-gitgutter |
  | `[c` | Jump to previous git change | vim-gitgutter |
  | `K` | Open C/C++ manual page for symbol under the cursor | vim-cppman |

  ---

  | Key Mapping with <Leader> key | Description | Provided by |
  |-------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
  | `<Leader>h` | Jump to the window left | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>j` | Jump to the window below | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>k` | Jump to the window above | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>l` | Jump to the window right | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>s` | Split window horizontally and explore current file's directory | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>v` | Split window vertically and explore current file's directory | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>y` | Yank selection to local clipboard via OSC52 | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>co` | Open quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cc` | Close quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cn` | Jump to next result of quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cp` | Jump to previous result of quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cl` | Show result list in quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>a` | Switch between source/header file (C/C++) | a.vim |
  | `<Leader>n` | Toggle file explorer sidebar | NERDTree |
  | `<Leader>m` | Toggle source tag browser | taglist.vim |
  | `<Leader>f` | Fuzzy file finder | leaderf |
  | `<Leader>b` | Fuzzy buffer finder | leaderf |

> Notes:  
  Built-in commands work in any Vim. Plugin-provided commands may require the plugin to be installed and loaded (they are included in this project).  
  To find exact commands for a plugin, open its docs under ~/.vim/bundle/{plugin}/doc or use `:Helptags` after installing bundles.


## Requirements

In order to make PowerBash works properly, ensure you have the following tools installed:
- `git`
- `tmux` (almost versions is compatible, but 3.4 and above recommended)
- `vim` (almost versions is compatible, but 8.1 and above recommended)
- `python3` (for various Vim plugins)
- `ctags` (for taglist and code navigation in Vim)

And to make full use of all features, it's recommended to also have the following tools:
- `ack` or `ag` (for fast searching in Vim)
- `cscope` (for code navigation in Vim)
- `rg` (ripgrep, for fuzzy finding in Vim)
- `cppman` (for C++ manual integration in Vim)

With Ubuntu22.04 or later, you can install these tools using:
```bash
sudo apt install -y git tmux vim python3 ack silversearcher-ag universal-ctags cscope ripgrep cppman
```


## Customization

- You can further customize any configuration file in your `HOME/` directory.
- You can further add your own aliases to `~/.bash_aliases`.
- You can further extend Vim with more plugins by adding them to `HOME/.vim/bundle/`.


## Thanks
This project is inspired by and adapted or reused from the following excellent resources:

- [PowerVim](https://github.com/youngyangyang04/PowerVim)
- [OmniCppComplete](https://github.com/vim-scripts/OmniCppComplete)
- [a.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/a.vim)
- [ack.vim](https://github.com/mileszs/ack.vim)
- [auto-pairs](https://github.com/jiangmiao/auto-pairs)
- [dracula.vim](https://github.com/dracula/vim)
- [indentLine](https://github.com/Yggdroot/indentLine)
- [leaderF](https://github.com/Yggdroot/LeaderF)
- [lightline.vim](https://github.com/itchyny/lightline.vim)
- [minibufexpl.vim](https://github.com/fholgado/minibufexpl.vim)
- [nerdtree](https://github.com/preservim/nerdtree)
- [nerdtree-git-plugin](https://github.com/Xuyuanp/nerdtree-git-plugin)
- [rainbow](https://github.com/luochen1990/rainbow)
- [taglist.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/taglist.vim)
- [vim-auto-popmenu](https://github.com/skywind3000/vim-auto-popmenu)
- [vim-commentary](https://github.com/tpope/vim-commentary)
- [vim-cppman](https://github.com/skywind3000/vim-cppman)
- [vim-dict](https://github.com/skywind3000/vim-dict)
- [vim-gitbranch](https://github.com/itchyny/vim-gitbranch)
- [vim-gitgutter](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter)
- [vim-plugin-AnsiEsc](https://github.com/powerman/vim-plugin-AnsiEsc.git)
- [vim-polyglot](https://github.com/sheerun/vim-polyglot)
- [xterm-color-table.vim](https://github.com/guns/xterm-color-table.vim)

Thanks to their authors for their contributions to the open-source community!


## License

This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0 License.

---

*Make your Bash, Git, tmux, and Vim environments more powerful and convenient with PowerBash!*

Commit message:

🎉 feat[vim]: add vim-gutentags plugin to support automatically tags files management.

README.md, after:

# PowerBash

PowerBash is a comprehensive, user-scoped environment configuration suite that supercharges your
command-line productivity. It provides a highly customized Bash shell, advanced Git integration,
a powerful tmux setup, and a feature-rich Vim environment with pre-configured plugins, all designed
for convenience, clarity, and efficiency.


## Features

### 🖥️ Enhanced Bash Environment

- **Custom PS1 Prompt:**  
  - Shows command return code status (`x` for failure, `o` for success).
  - Displays the current Git branch (with `⎇` symbol) if inside a Git repository.
  - Presents a complete and informative present working directory (PWD) path.
  - Distinguishes root (`#`) and normal user (`$`) prompts.
- **Clipboard Integration:**  
  - Includes the `osc_yank` function for copying text to the system clipboard via OSC52 escape
    sequences, supporting xterm, tmux, and screen.
- **Improved History and Usability:**  
  - Appends to history, ignores duplicates, and sets sensible history sizes.
  - Enables useful shell options: `globstar`, `checkwinsize`, `autoindent`, and more.
- **Colorful and Informative:**  
  - Color support for prompt, `ls`, `grep`, and GCC output.
  - Handy aliases for `ls`, `grep`, and more.
- **Automatic Sourcing:**  
  - Loads additional aliases from `~/.bash_aliases` if present.
  - Enables programmable completion if available.

### 🛠️ User-Scoped Git Configuration

- **Custom `.gitconfig`:**  
  - Useful aliases for submodule management (commands like `git sclone`, `git supdate`, etc.).
  - Pretty log formatting (commands like `git lg`).
  - Sets Vim as the default editor and uses a custom commit message template.
  - Enables colored output and credential storage.
- **`.gitignore`:**  
  - Ignores build artifacts, tags, cscope files, and visual studio code editor folders.
- **Commit Message Template:**  
  - Enforces a consistent, emoji-based commit message style with clear scopes and change types.

### 🖥️ Custom tmux Configuration

- **User-level `.tmux.conf`:**  
  - Enables mouse support, sets a modern status line, and configures useful key bindings.
  - Ensures compatibility with various tmux versions.
  - Sets up history limits, color schemes, and other usability tweaks.

### 📝 Advanced Vim Environment

- **Custom `.vimrc`:**  
  - Enables syntax highlighting, color schemes (Dracula), and improved UI elements.
  - Sets up filetype detection, indentation, and encoding options.
  - Defines convenient key mappings for window navigation, quickfix, and more.
  - Integrates cscope support for code navigation.
  - Adds OSC52 yank support for copying text from remote to the local system clipboard.
- **Pre-configured Plugins (via Pathogen):**
  - **a.vim** Swtich between source files and header files quickly.
  - **ack.vim:** Fast code pattern searching (configured to use `ag` if available).
  - **auto-pairs:** Automatic insertion of matching brackets and quotes.
  - **dracula.vim:** Dracula color scheme.
  - **indentline:** Visual indentation guides.
  - **leaderf:** Fuzzy file and tag finder.
  - **lightline.vim:** Lightweight, customizable statusline.
  - **minibufexpl.vim:** Buffer explorer.
  - **NERDTree:** File explorer sidebar.
  - **nerdtree-git-plugin:** Git status integration for NERDTree.
  - **OmniCppComplete:** C++ code completion.
  - **rainbow:** Rainbow parentheses for better code readability.
  - **taglist.vim:** Source code tag browser.
  - **vim-auto-popmenu:** Improved completion popup.
  - **vim-commentary:** Easy commenting.
  - **vim-cppman:** C++ manual integration.
  - **vim-dict:** Dictionary support for Vim.
  - **vim-gitbranch:** Git branch info for statuslines.
  - **vim-gitgutter:** Git diff indicators in the sign column.
  - **vim-plugin-AnsiEsc:** ANSI escape sequence highlighting.
  - **vim-polyglot:** Language pack for Vim.
  - **xterm-color-table.vim:** Color table utility.


## Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/sheer-rey/PowerBash.git
    ```

2. **Install the configuration files by running the installer script:**
    ```bash
    cd PowerBash
    ./PowerBash -i
    ```
    By default, this installs to your `$HOME` directory. See `./PowerBash -h` for more information.

3. **Start the new bash environment or re-source your .bashrc to make configuration changes take effect in your shell:**
    ```bash
    source ~/.bashrc
    ```

4. **Start a new tmux session to enjoy tmux with the enhanced configuration:**
    ```bash
    tmux
    ```

5. **Open Vim to enjoy the enhanced environment:**
    ```bash
    vim
    ```


## Uninstallation

To uninstall PowerBash and revert to your previous configurations, run the uninstaller script:
```bash
cd PowerBash
./PowerBash -u
```
This will remove the installed configuration files from your `$HOME` directory.


## Examples && Usage

### Bash

- Enjoy a prompt that shows command status, Git branch, and full PWD.  
  <img src="./Examples/bash.png" width="800" alt="PowerBash Prompt">
- Use `osc_yank` to copy text to your clipboard from the terminal.
- Use handy aliases like `ll`, `la`, and `alert`.  

### Git

- Use aliases like `git lg`, `git sclone`, `git supdate`, `git sfetch`, `git spull`, `git spush`, etc.  
  <img src="./Examples/git_lg.png" width="800" alt="Git Log Example">

- Commit messages will use the provided template for clarity and consistency.  
  <img src="./Examples/git_message.png" width="800" alt="Git Commit Example">

### tmux

- Use mouse support, modern status line, and improved navigation out of the box.  
  <img src="./Examples/tmux.png" width="800" alt="tmux Example">

- Commonly used tmux shortcuts

  | Keys | Action | Notes |
  |------|--------|-------|
  | `Prefix+E c` | Create new window | Opens a new tmux window |
  | `Prefix+E &` | Kill current window | Prompts for confirmation |
  | `Prefix+E n` | Next window | Cycle to the next window |
  | `Prefix+E p` | Previous window | Cycle to the previous window |
  | `Prefix+E <Num>` | Choose window | |
  | `Prefix+E ,` | Rename window | Prompts for a new window name |
  | `Prefix+E .` | Move window | Prompt for destination index |
  | `Prefix+E %` | Split pane vertically | Creates a vertical split |
  | `Prefix+E "` | Split pane horizontally | Creates a horizontal split |
  | `Prefix+E o` | Select next pane | Cycle focus to the next pane |
  | `Prefix+E ;` | Select previous pane | Cycle focus to the previous pane |
  | `Prefix+E z` | Toggle pane zoom | Zooms the current pane |
  | `Prefix+E x` | Kill current pane | Closes the active pane |
  | `Prefix+E {` | Swap pane left/up | Swap current pane with previous |
  | `Prefix+E }` | Swap pane right/down | Swap current pane with next |
  | `Prefix+E [` | Enter copy mode | Navigate and copy text in history |
  | `Prefix+E ]` | Paste buffer | Paste the tmux buffer into pane |
  | `Prefix+E r` | Reload config | Reload `~/.tmux.conf` without restarting |
  | `Prefix+E d` | Detach session | Detach from the current tmux session |
  | `Prefix+E s` | Choose session | Interactive session switcher |
  | `Prefix+E ?` | Show key bindings | Displays configured tmux shortcuts |

> Notes:  
  Default Prefix is `Ctrl+B`, configured Prefix is `Alt+E`.  
  If a mapping conflicts with your terminal, ensure your terminal emulator sends Alt/Meta keys or remap the prefix.  

### Vim

- Use `<Leader>n` to toggle NERDTree, `<Leader>y` to yank to clipboard, `<Leader>m` to toggle taglist, and more.
- Enjoy enhanced code navigation, completion, and syntax highlighting.
- All plugins are managed via Pathogen and are ready to use.  
  <img src="./Examples/vim.png" width="800" alt="Vim Example">

- Commonly used vim commands and key mappings (Configured <Leader> is `;` in this setup)
  | Command | Description | Provided by |
  |---------|-------------|-------------|
  | `:w<CR>` | Save current file | Built-in |
  | `:q<CR>` | Quit current window | Built-in |
  | `:e {file}<CR>` | Open/edit a file | Built-in |
  | `:split<CR>` | Split window horizontally | Built-in |
  | `:vsplit<CR>` | Split window vertically | Built-in |
  | `:ls<CR>` | List opened buffers | Built-in |
  | `:bnext<CR>` | Jump to next buffer | Built-in |
  | `:bprev<CR>` | Jump to previous buffer | Built-in |
  | `:CscopeReload<CR>` | Try to find cscope database in `pwd` and reload it | Project-configured |
  | `:Helptags<CR>` | Generate vim help documents for installed plugins | pathogen.vim |
  | `:Ack {pattern}<CR>` | Fast project search (uses `ag` if available) | ack.vim |
  | `:LeaderfFiles<CR>` | Fuzzy file finder | leaderf |
  | `:LeaderfBuffer<CR>` | Fuzzy buffer finder | leaderf |
  | `:Cppman! {symbol}<CR>` | Open C manual for symbol | vim-cppman |
  | `:Cppman {symbol}<CR>` | Open C++ manual for symbol | vim-cppman |

  ---

  | Key Mapping | Description | Provided by |
  |-------------|-------------|-------------|
  | `<C-W> h` | Jump to the window left | Built-in |
  | `<C-W> j` | Jump to the window below | Built-in |
  | `<C-W> k` | Jump to the window above | Built-in |
  | `<C-W> l` | Jump to the window right | Built-in |
  | `<C-x><C-o>` | Trigger omni-completion (C/C++ via OmniCppComplete) | OmniCppComplete |

  ---

  | Key Mapping without prefix | Description | Provided by |
  |----------------------------|-------------|-------------|
  | `gc` | Toggle comment on selected lines | vim-commentary |
  | `gcc` | Toggle comment on current line | vim-commentary |
  | `]c` | Jump to next git change | vim-gitgutter |
  | `[c` | Jump to previous git change | vim-gitgutter |
  | `K` | Open C/C++ manual page for symbol under the cursor | vim-cppman |

  ---

  | Key Mapping with <Leader> key | Description | Provided by |
  |-------------------------------|-------------|-------------|
  | `<Leader>h` | Jump to the window left | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>j` | Jump to the window below | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>k` | Jump to the window above | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>l` | Jump to the window right | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>s` | Split window horizontally and explore current file's directory | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>v` | Split window vertically and explore current file's directory | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>y` | Yank selection to local clipboard via OSC52 | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>co` | Open quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cc` | Close quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cn` | Jump to next result of quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cp` | Jump to previous result of quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>cl` | Show result list in quickfix window | Project-configured |
  | `<Leader>a` | Switch between source/header file (C/C++) | a.vim |
  | `<Leader>n` | Toggle file explorer sidebar | NERDTree |
  | `<Leader>m` | Toggle source tag browser | taglist.vim |
  | `<Leader>f` | Fuzzy file finder | leaderf |
  | `<Leader>b` | Fuzzy buffer finder | leaderf |

> Notes:  
  Built-in commands work in any Vim. Plugin-provided commands may require the plugin to be installed and loaded (they are included in this project).  
  To find exact commands for a plugin, open its docs under ~/.vim/bundle/{plugin}/doc or use `:Helptags` after installing bundles.


## Requirements

In order to make PowerBash works properly, ensure you have the following tools installed:
- `git`
- `tmux` (almost versions is compatible, but 3.4 and above recommended)
- `vim` (almost versions is compatible, but 8.1 and above recommended)
- `python3` (for various Vim plugins)

And to make full use of all features, it's recommended to also have the following tools:
- `ack` or `ag` (for fast searching in Vim)
- `ctags` (for taglist and code navigation in Vim)
- `cscope` (for code navigation in Vim)
- `gtags` (for GNU Global tagging system support in Vim)
- `gtags-cscope` (for cscope database generation and code navigation in Vim)
- `rg` (ripgrep, for fuzzy finding in Vim)
- `cppman` (for C++ manual integration in Vim)

With Ubuntu22.04 or later, you can install these tools using:
```bash
sudo apt install -y git tmux vim python3 ack silversearcher-ag universal-ctags cscope global ripgrep cppman
```


## Customization

- You can further customize any configuration file in your `HOME/` directory.
- You can further add your own aliases to `~/.bash_aliases`.
- You can further extend Vim with more plugins by adding them to `HOME/.vim/bundle/`.


## Thanks
This project is inspired by and adapted or reused from the following excellent resources:

- [PowerVim](https://github.com/youngyangyang04/PowerVim)
- [OmniCppComplete](https://github.com/vim-scripts/OmniCppComplete)
- [a.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/a.vim)
- [ack.vim](https://github.com/mileszs/ack.vim)
- [auto-pairs](https://github.com/jiangmiao/auto-pairs)
- [dracula.vim](https://github.com/dracula/vim)
- [indentLine](https://github.com/Yggdroot/indentLine)
- [leaderF](https://github.com/Yggdroot/LeaderF)
- [lightline.vim](https://github.com/itchyny/lightline.vim)
- [minibufexpl.vim](https://github.com/fholgado/minibufexpl.vim)
- [nerdtree](https://github.com/preservim/nerdtree)
- [nerdtree-git-plugin](https://github.com/Xuyuanp/nerdtree-git-plugin)
- [rainbow](https://github.com/luochen1990/rainbow)
- [taglist.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/taglist.vim)
- [vim-auto-popmenu](https://github.com/skywind3000/vim-auto-popmenu)
- [vim-commentary](https://github.com/tpope/vim-commentary)
- [vim-cppman](https://github.com/skywind3000/vim-cppman)
- [vim-dict](https://github.com/skywind3000/vim-dict)
- [vim-gitbranch](https://github.com/itchyny/vim-gitbranch)
- [vim-gitgutter](https://github.com/airblade/vim-gitgutter)
- [vim-plugin-AnsiEsc](https://github.com/powerman/vim-plugin-AnsiEsc.git)
- [vim-polyglot](https://github.com/sheerun/vim-polyglot)
- [xterm-color-table.vim](https://github.com/guns/xterm-color-table.vim)

Thanks to their authors for their contributions to the open-source community!


## License

This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0 License.

---

*Make your Bash, Git, tmux, and Vim environments more powerful and convenient with PowerBash!*
